Oh, I like the sound of that. That sounds pretty killer right there. Okay, so recently I saw this tutorial. By Disfing called The Only Drum Design Tutorial You'll Ever Need. And this video was really, really good. If you haven't seen this, you should definitely watch it. Drum design and drum synthesis has been a little bit of a hot topic recently among producers. People have been getting really interested in designing their own drum libraries and things. And there's a lot of really great tutorials on YouTube. Oversampled has another really great one here. But while these sound design tutorials are really good, they kind of go over the same methods that we've been using since like the 90s. What I'm really referring to here is drum synthesis specifically. So, like, creating drums from nothing basically. A lot of these videos explain the method that a lot of older drum machines, like the TRO909 and the 808, kind of used. Maybe with a little bit of like spice or like a little tip and trick here and there. And you know, that's fine. Like, if you want drums that sound like a drum machine. That's fine, like that's cool. But what if I wanted my drums to sound like this instead? In case you're wondering, I'm specifically talking about that ringy, distinctive snare sound. I'm not talking about that snare sound that sounds like you're just smacking a five-gallon water jug on a bunch of sand. I'm talking about that cracky, ringy, disgusting drum sound that sounds like you're breaking a 2x4 over a metal trash can. So how do we get this distinct drum sound? Well, if you've watched This Fing's tutorial or really any other tutorial on YouTube on how to synthesize drums, You'll learn that the three basic components of a drum sound is the transient, the tone of the drum, which is usually like a sine wave, and the snare. Which we use a noise channel for. The reason why this doesn't sound real is because we're not really emulating the way that a real snare sound works. We're just approximating the different sounds that we hear coming out of a snare drum. Let me explain what I mean by that. So, when you hit a snare drum, A drumstick, right? What are you hearing? What is the sound? The sound is triggered by this initial transient, the stick hitting the drum head. The ring that you hear is the drum head vibrating. and resonating, and the tone that's created from the drum head resonating and vibrating is shaped by the dimensions of the actual drum. And then on a snare drum, you also have this spring underneath that gives it that bright kind of pfft kind of sound. And then that whole sound is echoing all around the room, and that's what makes it sound really big and fat. So in short, you're hearing basically four things. The stick making contact with the drum head. The drum head vibrating. You're hearing. The snare underneath, and then you're hearing the room. That's what you're hearing when a snare drum is hit. And that entire plethora of sound is being initiated by just this Tiny little five to ten millisecond reaction that's happening right here. As you can probably imagine, trying to recreate this same phenomenon with Just simply a sine wave and a noise oscillator, and like a transient, it's it's not gonna cut it, it's just not gonna work very well. This is just too complicated to be recreated with. These three simple things. So instead of just approximating, we're actually going to recreate the mechanics of the snare drum in the DAW. So, a couple things before we start. I'm using logic here, obviously. Logic isn't the best DAW for this sort of thing. Ableton is probably a much better choice. But I've just been using Logic for so long that I'm just gonna use it. It's fine. But if you have Ableton, there's probably a much better process for doing this. In fact, if you use Ableton and you find an easier way of doing this, feel free to just rip this video off and. Make a better one. I think you should be able to replicate this process in just about any DAW, but I'm not super sure. Also, I'm going to be using serum for this, but you can use any syn It doesn't really matter. Okay, so the first thing that we need to do is we need to create a transient. This is an emulation of the stick hitting the actual snare head, which will pretty much jumpstart the rest of the sound. And literally, all we're creating here is just the transient. We're not like trying to make some drum tone. We're just making the transient only. Here, I'm using just a noise channel and a square wave. The square wave is just there to give it some low end and a little bit of body in the lower mids. Because without the square wave, you don't really get a whole lot of that. So, the square wave kind of helps add a little bit of body to the sound. That's all you need to start. So that's step one done. For step two, we're going to be emulating the sound of the drumhead resonating. And we're going to do that using Feedback synthesis. So basically, what we're doing is we are sending the transit that we just made to a bus, and we're going to send the bus back into itself. So that it's feeding back and creating a tone. Now, before you do this, it's super duper important, but you want to put a limiter on because, well, if you have any sort of positive feedback, This can happen. And you really don't want that. So make sure that you put a limiter on. And I don't know, I'm going to set the output of the limiter like minus 10. I'm just going to play it safe. Okay, so we basically have this transient now, and it is sending to a drum head. We don't want it to output to the drum head, we want it to send to that drum head because we actually want to hear both of them. Exclusively. So it actually might help if you sum these as well. We can make a sum real quick. We'll just call it like snare. So after you get your limiter enabled, what you're going to do is you're going to Put some delay on the bus that you're sending to. And just to clarify, I'm not talking about no fancy delay with a bunch of feedback and panning and stuff. I'm just talking about like the simplest delay possible, like just raw delay. In logic, I like to use sample delay because it allows for very fine control. Basically, whatever you set this delay to is going to determine the pitch of the tone that is generated in the feedback. And another thing that's important is if you start loading plugins into this bus, the plugins have latency. So the plugins that you load in are actually going to change the pitch as well because of the latency. Adding more delay. Okay, so now that we have a delay here, let's put a gain plugin just to make sure that it doesn't feed back infinitely. You never ever want the output Of this bus to be more than the input. And finally, let's send the bus to itself. And some dolls might have like a feature where it will prevent you from doing this because it's pretty dangerous, but I don't know, in logic, it just lets you do it. So, okay, so now I'm sending the drum head back into itself. And so, when I hit the transient, this is what's going to happen. There's a little bit of a tone there, right? Now we can make the tone last longer by increasing the gain. Just be careful not to make it go positive. So now we have this sort of buzz, and if we want to change the pitch of it, we mess with the delay time. So, to recap, what we have here is we have a transient. that is sending into a bus and the bus is just processing the transient and sending it back to itself and processing it again and again and again forever basically. You're going to want to add an EQ, and this is what's going to affect the resonance of the drum head. You see, the drum head is made of a material that's not air. When sound is vibrating through it, it doesn't carry out all the frequencies. So, check this out. Right? It's already starting to sound kinda more like a drum, like an actual drum head. I mean, it's pretty thin at the moment. But it's getting somewhere. Now you can boost in the EQ, but you kind of don't want to because instead, you mostly want to cut. And if you're going to boost anything, you want to make sure that you turn the gain down. And you can change the pitch of the drum head with the delay. That's already starting to sound like a snare. That like that has like that's like the ringy quality of the snare that we want. Something else that's really interesting that you'll notice. Is that if you put on a filter and you change the cutoff frequency of the filter, it'll actually change the tune of the drum. And the reason for this is because phase shift. If you do phase shift over and over, well, that's just changing the pitch because it's feeding back into itself. So it's constantly like phase shifting over and over and over. And that's what's causing the pitch shift. It's really interesting. The odd like the tune is going up. Feedback Synthesis honestly deserves a video on its own just because of how interesting it is, but I guess it's for another day. So now we're gonna go back to the transient. And we're going to edit the transient a little bit and try to change the pitch of the oscillator that we have. The reason why we're going back to edit the transient is because now we're trying to tune this part of the equation, which is the tone of the actual drum. And the reason why we can't just EQ the drum head is because the EQ that's on the drum head isn't really an EQ in a typical sense. It's more of like a resonator or like a dampener, mostly because it's feeding back on itself. And honestly, the transient is being amplified by the drum, and the transient is also what's triggering the resonance in the drum head. So it just kind of makes sense to just EQ the transient. It just kind of works out that way. And I'm actually kind of like changing the dimensions of the drum with this. I'm changing like the resonance of not the snare head, but the actual drum. So now it sounds like it's a really small drum with like a loose head. And now it's like a Bigger drum. I like to try to tune the transient so that it's really resonant with the fundamental. So this fundamental tone that we see here, I like to try to tune the transient to where that's like as loud as it can be. Another thing I like to do with the drum head, those harmonics are pretty ugly. So you can just dip them in the EQ. Or if you like them, you know. I I just think that sounds kinda bad. But this sounds a little bit better. That sounds more like a drum to me. So now the only thing that's missing is the snare, which leads us to step four. We're going to create another instance of Serum, and this will be our snare. And this doesn't have to like send to the drum head or anything. This can just be pretty much like a normal noise track, like what you'd normally use. And we're gonna trigger all this at the same time. Another thing you can try is EQing the snare part of the drum. And I like to give it some like 2K. Just sounds more like what an actual scenario sounds like. And then you just mix everything to taste. So, right now, it sounds a little bit ringy. Maybe we can just kind of turn the drum head down a little. And maybe we want it to be a little bit more snappy so we can turn the transient up. And actually the transient is a little bit long, so I might shorten that. That sounds more like an actual snare to me. Now, you may be wondering, Zion. That sounds kind of weak. It doesn't sound very great. It sounds kind of Dry. And that's because we're missing the fourth component of the drum sound, the room. So once you have all these four things in place, you can just do all of your regular stuff that you normally do. You can EQ it a little bit, the taste, maybe you want to brighten it up a little. Maybe you want to put a high pass on it. And then, of course, you want to distort it a little bit, give it a little bit of grit. And yeah, you just m you just mess with the mix of these three elements, the transient, the snare, and the resonating drum head. You can get a bunch of different sounds out of it. One thing I forgot to mention is that it's actually kind of important to set the sends to prefader. So, that it's sending before the fader takes effect. This will help you mix it a lot easier. Oh, I like the sound of that. That sounds pretty killer right there. Some cool side effects that come with this method is if you randomize your transient a little bit, every The hit of the drum is going to be slightly different. It's going to resonate a little bit differently. When messing around a lot, I actually found that it's best to randomize the noise aspect of the transient and not so much the oscillator. The oscillator really does affect the Phase and the initial impact and the tone of the drum, whereas the noise is more just kind of like the random entropy of the transient. So it's just better to randomize the noise and Not so much the oscillator. You can randomize the oscillator just a tiny bit, you know, but not not too much. Another thing that helps a lot is to EQ the transient and to also kind of go into the oscillator and really pay attention to what partials you're using. That is, if you're using serum. This will really, really help shape the actual drum tone a lot better. Some other things that you want to keep in mind when tuning these parameters is that everything really kind of affects everything. Like if you're going to tune your drum down a lot, It's really gonna help to like make the drum a little bit bigger. It'll just sound better And then maybe, I don't know, affect the EQ a little. If you tuned the drum To the drum head, it's just gonna sound better. Another thing you need to remember too is that if your drum is lower in pitch, it's probably gonna make this snare vibrate for longer. So you need to increase the decay time on the snare. And it all goes the opposite direction when you're tuning up. Another great thing about this method is that ghost notes sound so realistic. When you hit a drum really softly, you don't Create a whole lot of resonance with the drum head. You kind of get a little bit of tone out of the drum still, but what you still get quite a lot of is the snare vibration on the bottom, like the spring vibrating. You still get plenty of that. And I think this is mostly due to actually how snares are mic'd up in most cases. But I really don't know. I mean, I could just be full of it. So when you go to map the velocities, all you have to do is for lower velocities just turn down the transient, but don't turn down the snare sound quite as much. It just sounds so good. Alright, so super fast to recap on everything that we did. Step one, create a transient. Use an oscillator and a noise channel. Make it really, really short, like between four and fifteen milliseconds. Next, you're going to send it over to the drum head bus. The drum head bus is going to feed back into itself. You're going to use an EQ to dampen it. Use the gain to control how ringy it is. And you're going to use some delay to control the tuning of it. Step three: you're going to modify the tone of the transient by changing the Pitch of the oscillator and also maybe put some EQ on it to tune the tone of the drum. Step four, you're going to create a snare track and maybe EQ that as well. Step five, you're going to play it in a room, and step six, you just put whatever processing you want on everything. And you mix to taste. And that's basically it. Example time. Well, that's basically all I got, so um, I don't know, go make some music or something. 