Alright, I'm not gonna lie, this is pretty baffling. So, once upon a time, some random bedroom producer, internet lurker fella, decided to make a random YouTube tutorial video just because. Well, the information didn't exist on the internet. And little did he know that six months later he would have 1,000 subs? What the heck? And the video would get. 40,000 views in how many days? Two weeks. That's ridiculous. I got 40,000 views and a thousand subscribers from one six-month-old video, all within two weeks. And the only reason why I knew about it is because my brother called me and he's like, Hey bro, your video popped up in my recommends and it has like 20k views. So, yeah, in response to the small explosion of attention this channel's been getting lately, I thought I'd go through some of the comments, answer some questions, and also discuss the future of this channel. But first I just want to say thank you all for the engagement, for subscribing, for liking, for commenting. Honestly, like all the discussion in the comments section is like super super dope. And thank you guys for spreading the video all around Discord. I know you've been doing it. YouTube Analytics reveals all. But yeah, just the fact that this information is spreading around and inspiring a lot of people It really means a lot. So, thank you guys. A lot of you in the comments are pretty smart and have noticed that, oh, this is just car plus strong modeling. And yeah, you guys are exactly right about that. Here's the Wikipedia page on Car plus strong modeling. It describes the exact process I used in the video in the first couple lines. There are a lot of synthesizers that use modeling as like their main principle. In fact, Logic even has one that comes stock. It's called Sculpture. Although to be honest with you, I never really bother to learn sculpture, it's like kinda complicated. Some people also mentioned in the comments that Ableton has some plug-ins that do this as well. I think Corpus is one of them. And I'm not too familiar with Ableton, so I'm just gonna take the word for it. But yeah, anyway, the point I'm trying to make is that there's a lot of other ways that you can get this sound instead of just routing things in your DAW. Like, here, look, I can get the same kind of sound by using a comb filter. This plugin is called McOM and it's by Melda. If I set the feedback really high and then put on a filter, look, it's the same sound. Look, I can even set the modulator to follower mode and have it affect the high pass filter so that it changes the tension in real time, just like how a real drum head behaves. Now that's something I can't do just using routing within logic. And see, I got this idea from you guys. If you want to know how I got it sounding like it's hitting harder, because a lot of you guys were saying like, oh, it sounds like you're tapping on it with your fingers or whatever, basically just added a bunch of 2K to the transient to give it a nice crack. Adjusted the snare envelope a little bit, and then just clipped the hell out of it with this wave shaper here. Let's see if I can do Tom Drums with this plugin. It's okay, I guess. It may not be much, but hey, to my fellow FLOL users out there, I'm trying for you guys. Also my Reaper people, but. Honestly, I feel like feedback should be possible in Reaper. A lot of you guys are also just having issues in general just kind of getting an organic sound, or just trying to get the sound to work altogether. Some more smart people in the comments also mentioned that it's important to set the buffer size really low. I guess I just kind of forgot to mention that. One guy even exactly guessed what my buffer size was. What a stud. The next most important component is just to EQ a really strong fundamental in the transient. And obviously, put an EQ on the feedback bus so you get this nice like tension and dampening effect. It's a bit finicky, but once you get it, like you'll have a baseline and you can just kind of tweak with it. A lot of people are saying how, like, this doesn't really sound completely realistic. But you have to admit, like, it sounds a lot more real than, like, the TR909. Plus, as complex as it seems to set this up, like, this is actually a very basic model. So, the fact that we can get this close to the real thing with just a basic model is kind of baffling to me. But I think the coolest thing about this technique is that you can use the model of this snare to create snares that don't really exist or are not even possible. Like we're kind of inventing new sounds, you know? And if there's certain qualities that you really want in the snare drum, well then you just put em in the model. Like here, look, Nezfer Sounds suggested, like, hey, why don't you have a network of delays because snares have more than one tuner. And yeah, actually that's a freaking sick idea. And it actually works. And the best part is, is we don't even need a network of delays. We can just have multiple delays running in one bus because it it's all feeding back into itself. Screw it, I don't even need two delays. Like This is a stereo delay plug-in. I can just run it mono and I get two for the price of one. How about four delays? Some of you in the comments even mentioned like waveguide modeling, which I never even really heard of until I started reading my comment section. And while I love that idea, um It's a bit out of the scope of my capability and honestly Logic's capability. But yo, just from the little bit of research I've done into Waveguide stuff, like This is actually really crazy. If someone can make an easy to use synth that can do this stuff, like, bro, just take my money. Anyway, with all that out of the way. I think now I'm gonna talk about the future of this channel, just for the sake of the one thousand people that subscribed, who are probably expecting more content. See, the whole reason why I made the snares video is because well there just wasn't a tutorial for it And you know, that kind of surprised me because I've been listening, I've been doing music for a long time. I've been watching sound design tutorials on YouTube since like 2012. And this whole time I've just kind of been on the sidelines just witnessing the EDM arms race just kind of unfold over the years. And honestly. Kind of continues to evolve, like future base is making a revival, they just call it color base now. But yeah, like I've just been lurking this whole time because honestly, I'm just kind of more of an internet consumer and not much of a contributor. I don't feel like I have that much to contribute. But you know, maybe I'm wrong about that because like, I don't know, the one time I did decide to maybe contribute something that may be useful, like, this happened. So, uh, yeah, I don't know. I guess I'll make more videos, but I'm not really interested in covering ground that has already been covered by other creators. I've also had other ideas for videos, like going into like audio theory and mixing theory and stuff like that. But when you got guys like Dan Werrell just being super based and dropping nukes on the audio rumor mill, like I don't know, do you really need much more than that? Who's gonna wanna listen to this honky voice over his British imported silk? Good lord. Plus, even after over a decade of making music, I still don't think I'm very good at mixing anyway. So, even if I did give advice, like I don't I'm not even confident that it would be good advice. And let's be honest, another dude giving mixing advice on YouTube is like the last thing that we need. I've also had a lot of ideas about um philosophy and like kind of talking about the mental that goes into being an artist. But honestly, like I learned quite a lot from Venus theory, so I guess what I'm trying to say is that, like, if I continue to make videos, I don't know exactly what kind of videos I'm going to be making, but whatever I do make. If I make something, I'm gonna try to make it really good or like new information. Which brings me to my last thing. A lot of you have asked for a video on kick drums and tom-drums and cymbals. And while AU5 has the definitive symbol synthesis video, I still think there's a lot that can be taught about drum design and techniques in general. And spoiler alert, I'm work I'm working on the kick drum one Okay, I'm working on that one because I actually do have like a unique way of making kick drums that's actually kind of neat, even if it's a little bit niche. But honestly, in the realm of EDM, like We cannot already have kick drums mostly figured out. I mean, there's a billion YouTube tutorials on how to make kick drums already out there. So, yeah, like kick drums are pretty simple. Well, most of the time. 